 Yes, you are right. Great. So, I hope everybody is doing good. I wanted to talk about a little about these sessions. So, I'm sure you've got this schedule. So we are going to have these like at least once a week and starting from today, which is related to resume. And the good part about this particular session is that you don't you're not limited to only general management. I'm sure a few of you are from the general management. And we have also like invited students from the digital transformation program so that you get an opportunity to interact with them. Now these sessions are not really from the perspective of teaching you something. Rather, it's more to do with the making you do a couple of exercises and you know making you realize where you are and what you're lacking and what you're, let's say the next vision that you're targeting on how you're planning to build towards that. And of course, to check on the progress, we are going to be connecting for the possible counseling. Some of you might have already connected with me. And if you haven't, I'll be sharing the link to connect with me later on. So starting now, some of you may have joined from your mobile and some of you might have just joined from your laptop. That is okay. I will be firstly requesting when we have Vinay also comes from the Accredibility. Vinay just share the sheets first both for the DT and general management in the chat. I'm also going to be sharing my screen. And let me know if you're able to view my screen clearly. Is my screen visible? Yeah. Okay. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. So in the mean while Vinay, you can start sharing the sheet with the participants. So this is basically what I'll be, you know, sharing with you. This is for digital transformation. And the other one, we have a similar one for a general management also. So I'll just take you through this. This has a list of professional keywords and, you know, a lot of. I'm sorry to interrupt you in between now. Yeah. I'm just going to put it down. Actually, I'm working right now. I can just watch this video. Well, there's video be available on portal. This is going to be recorded. It's going to be, it will be available on the platform that we have. Yes, yes, absolutely. This is at the resources that I'm showing you. This will be visible to you as well. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. This is going to be recorded. Everything that we're going to be doing in the session is going to be recorded. And this will be shared. Now, to start with what we're going to do is firstly, I'll get back to the sheet, but we're going to start with a small assessment firstly. Okay. Okay. Now you have few sheets, which are like, let's say GM top resume keywords. I want you to firstly down load that when I please share the other two. I did not ask you for the other document. You can just guys. You can start opening the GM top resume keywords firstly. That will be useful when I do it for the others as well. Yeah. So what I wanted to show you over here is something like this would open up when you open up this sheet. Right? This will have a list of keywords usually which are used for the resume building. Then you have resume action words. This is just like, you know, some content that is being shared with you. But how you have to use it, we're going to talk about that. Then there is this resume checklist, which you can always use later on once your resume building is done. I want you to directly come to the self assessment part. Just open that you can all download the sheet right now. Somit, I believe there's something wrong at your end because my voice is clear and it's audible to everybody. So just try to check at your end as well. Guys, you can see the self assessment questionnaire on my screen. You can see that right? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So basically what I want you to do right now is I know like all of you are either aspiring to get into the management, the senior management position or your targeting. Let's say the transition within the company, right? Either a senior position or you're looking for a change of organization or within the company or role change or maybe a promotion. So first thing that I want you to do is I want you to take out your resume. I want you to go through these particular questions like in the resume, you have these different sections like the header, the professional summary core competencies, experience, project, education, certification. I just want you to take a look at your current resume and tell me out of this like where all you feel it's a yes, it's a no or you're not sure. I want you to quickly take a look at your resume and start taking a look at your questionnaire as of now. So you can just on the other hand take a look at your current resume and start doing it. See because this is something I'm not going to be teaching you exactly how to build a resume. You're all we're going to be looking at tools to definitely tailor your resume today. But this is a basic assessment that I want you to attempt. Yeah. Shaja, this is already shared right now. When I please reshare the GM top resume sheet again, people who are not able to see it, they can see it on my screen right now. And they can also refer to it from here. This is for digital transformation also you have resume keywords sheet. Please reshare that right now. Yeah. And guys, what you need to do is you need to go through this particular sheet and you need to take a look at your resume and you need to give me a you know quick snapshot of where you currently stand. So you can start looking at like what your professional somebody does it highlight any leadership skills. If you're targeting a leadership role, so does it highlight that you know looking at the keywords which are mentioned. Does it manage or does it show achievements like managing budgets and on if you're already into mid to senior if you're in an entry level job. Then of course, this point is not going to be relevant. Right. So I want you to quickly take a look at the current resume that you have. Have you started doing that. You have a lot of options over here. Yes, the digital resume. What we don't. When I share the other one, this is something that we're going to use in some time. You can share the other sheet. This is a word document. You can share the other one. Guys, have you started going through this questionnaire and have you started taking a look at your current resume. Yes, yes, we're doing that. Yeah, great, great. So I'll just give you about five minutes. I don't want you to get too much into detail, but just go through these questions specifically and have a look at it. Somebody who's from the digital transformation, the digital transformation resume worksheet is also shared. You can click on that. You can view it. It will look exactly like this and just go to the resume or self assessment part over there. You'll be able to see it. Self assessment question. So it will have similar questions. Just walk through those and understand as of now is your current profile suitable for a digital transformation role. Have you included any keywords? Have you made any changes to it? Yes, no. Have a look at it. Ganesh, everything will be shared with you and it will be uploaded post this particular session. So you don't have to worry at all. If you're not able to hear anything or there's any issue, you can just have a look at the. You can say this particular resource and take a look at your resume. That is what I would suggest everybody to do it once you are done. Please let me know. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, guys, now you're done. Please let me know. I'm not yet done. Okay. Anybody who's done. Okay. Okay. You just have two more minutes. You just one minute more. You just have a look at it. Okay. Okay, guys. So I believe we'll just quickly have a chat. Anybody wants to share anything regarding the self assessment that they've done post looking at the current resume? You can just share in the chat or you can just come on air and you can tell me you know if there is something that is missing you find there was a mismatch or you have not updated it or you still feel that there are a lot of keywords missing. Okay. Anybody who's gone through it. Gulch and Kasek Pratik Shah. I did. I mean, I've not been able to complete it, but I can talk about whatever I did complete. So one of the things that was missing for me was key general manager skills. Okay. I haven't listed them. Like team leadership operations process optimization. All these bits aren't mentioned in my CV. Okay. Right. So basically. So these are few things. Anybody else wants to say anything about other than the keywords? Anybody else wants to come up with any pointers? I'm not able to do this at the moment since I'm at work. Okay. Gulshan, no worries. What about others? But you can do it later on. You can have a look at the assessment later on. That's not an issue. Anybody else? Okay. So what we're going to do is let me just show you one of the samples. Okay. Let me just open this with you right now. So you have let me just take you through this is going to be shared with you. Right. Let me just open this view. So she mentioned about the general management resume. So let's open one of the resumes and understand what do you generally see in one of the general management? You'll get everything. Okay. All this articles and LinkedIn handbook and reports. This will be shared and when you click on resume samples, a zip folder will be shared with you. So this is something that you can have a look at. Yes, are the digital transformation sheet was also shared. This will be shared as well with you. Now let's look at one of these resumes. So for example, if you're targeting any mid position. Let's say. So let's say marketing operations manager. This is just for your reference. So whenever this is one of the samples, which is shared, right. There are just few things that I want you to identify. I'm sure all of you are building all of you are looking at the transitioning process. You're going to identify the keywords by looking at the job description, identifying that. Plus in the sheet that I am sharing, it will also have a list of keywords which you need to include in your resume when you're tailoring it for the job. But you will still have to tailor it as for the role that you're targeting. So first, most important thing that you need to refer to is whether you're targeting a general management role or a digital transformation for a senior project manager or any business manager position. You need to specifically understand what is the requirement of the role and how best you put into that particular role. So it's always good to identify what your core strengths are, what your core competencies are, what your current gaps are and how you can bridge that and show these in the resume. So how best you can show the transitioning through projects through maybe your certifications and you can add on to that particular resume. Just few pointers that I want you to identify what do you like about this particular resume, for example. Anything anybody can share in the chat room. Yeah, two things that I could see one is it's very simple and straightforward, not lengthy. Absolutely. And the second thing is the ski skills are clearly visible on the left hand side. Perfect. Right. Yes, I also mentioned one piece. So basically see one page if you can build on a one page or great if you cannot. So stick to two pages, but don't go beyond that one one and half to maximum two pages is good. But yes, clearly clarity, brevity, plus you can see the impact is also visible over here. You can see the percentage and how the sentences are started. So these are basically called the action words. Right. So this is something which is already covered over here. So when you look at this particular sheet, you will find over here, like specifically, you know, you have the resume action words. How do you start a particular sentence with examples. It's all given over here. Right. Then I say professional keywords. It means what other different technical skills which should be there. Now this is for entry level made to senior manager. You can look at the examples. This is something that will be shared. You can refer to it later. I'm just explaining how you can use this non technical skills your soft skills your leadership skills and the tools. These are very important because they play a great role when you're talking about the specific tools that you used. And these are certain usage with metrics, which are included. Right. Now whenever you're looking at any or building any specific resume, you need to understand first of all the role that you're tailoring it for. If you're not clear about what is the role that you're getting into, you have done a particular certification, but how are you implementing that into your current role. You need to initiate that first in your mind first. You need to have that vision because when people connect for counseling, I always give them first basic task of skill gap analysis. I asked them to identify what their current strengths are, what their current gaps are vis-a-vis the role that they are targeting. And look at few references. Accordingly, once you've sorted that out, maybe you know, I'm not ready for that. Only at maybe let me look at the closest tool that I can target. So pick out those two, three roles which you think would be suitable and accordingly you can match up to that. Now this is as far as the general management is concerned. This is the exact sheet, which is created for the digital transformation also. You have professional keywords for these are the keywords, which would be useful, which you must have on your resume. These are the examples for entry level and these are these are the examples for senior managerial profiles. So you can have a look at this plus what are the key leadership skills or keywords that you can use from the strategy perspective customer focus perspective technology change management. So these are all the buzzwords. So both for general management, whether you're doing a particular program, you have to understand they could be in track departmental intervention as well. Somebody who's from let's say, are getting into or doing a cause in general management or digital transformation and is looking for a new role. So you have to sort of see where best you're going to fit into that particular juncture. So I would suggest that go through these keywords, understand what is going to be the most relevant few and then start thinking in terms of, you know, like in terms of the core roles that you're targeting and how you're going to be transitioning to that. Yeah, so this is something that is anyways going to be shared for your records. Now the most important thing that you're going to do in this particular session today is something to do with chat GPT. I want to ask you how many of you are currently using chat GPT and using AI to tailor your resumes. Yes or no, I want people to at least, you know answer Abhishek is saying, one should not very good. Great. Not yes. Not yet, Rabir is saying not yet. Okay. But that is something not yet. RIT not yet. Nirmata. Yes. Great. So if see if you're not using, I would suggest that you can always seek help. There's no harm because for every job role you will have to tailor it. Now in one job, your in one industry or tailoring it, you cannot send the same resume and every day you will not keep using, you know, the similar problems. So just to make your task easier, I wanted to share something with you. I think that doc is also shared with you right now. And if you haven't shared that, share the word doc now. Yeah. Okay. So let me just show you for both digital transformation and general management. So over here, this is a doc which has, if you're targeting a role for junior level, mid level or senior level. Okay. So let's say this is for an entry level. So you have all there are different sections in the resume, right? You have a header, you have a professional summary, core competencies, experience, your basically where you showcase your transferable skills. What you need to use over there, like the start approach, how you have to show the impact with metrics. So that is also included your education and certifications projects. And if you want to give any links like get up and these are basically the prompts, which are which you can easily use and how you have to use it is, I'll just show you. So let's take one of the examples. I want one volunteer who is here from digital transformation. We're just going to quickly do this. So let's say anybody who's over here from digital transformation, who can just volunteer, I will just tell you how you can use it best. Nobody's there. I am from digital transformation. One second, I cannot see your name. Pratikshar. Pratikshar, great. So Pratikshar, what is the role that you're targeting right now? I'm looking for a manager role where so basically this is a poor learning in a consulting area. So let's say you're looking for a digital transformation manager. Can we call it that? Yes. So let's say you're looking for a mid-level digital transformation. Okay, let's go over here. This is a prompt. I'm telling you guys how you can use this. I'm making it very simple. Okay, just copy this particular prompt. Just go to chat GPT. I'll be sharing this doc with you because I want people to use it so that they can come up with multiple resumes and then we can have a chat. But before that, I'm vision, what are the different tools? So you simply have to paste this over here. Right? Pratikshar. Okay. Now we're going to put in the information. So Pratikshar, you mentioned you're transitioning from what is your current role? I'm an assistant manager. Okay, so I'm just putting it away. Okay, I'm just showing you an example guys. This will be easy. You can all try it out after this. I'll make you practice assistant manager. You can be specific. What are you working exactly as assistant learning learning learning? Okay. So I've mentioned that and to mid-level digital transformation role or yes, or you can mention or digital. Yes, that is fine. I'm saying that that is good enough. I have dash. So wherever you see these brackets, put it insert number of yours. So can you tell me the yours nine years. So let's see nine. Yours once a month. Nine years of experience. Okay. And what is the industry that you're currently in? Telecommunications. Telecommunications. Right? Okay. With key strengths in for example, digital strategy business transformation clouded adoption. This is something that is already there in the because in mid-managerial level, you are expected to have this. But if you want to remove any of this, you can do that. I got it. These are the specific keywords that I've already been inserted. Now help me create a three to four summary that emphasizes like speed and leadership in this. This. This. And that aligns with the job description now insert gd. So you mentioned. Let me just open one of the jd's. I'll do the slide so that all of you know exactly this is one part of the resume. We're just doing this. I mean, you can tailor it for each section and you can quickly do it. So let's say you're targeting digital transformation manager. Okay. Okay. Let me just put in consulting also. Let's see if we find something. You might want to add learning over there. Okay. Let me just put in. Okay. So let's just choose. I mean, you know, taking one example right now. So let's see. Instead of that, I wanted to put consulting because you mentioned consulting. Let's try it. I just need to see the something in posts. Guys, you can always explore jobs in posts as well. Like you go to content type, you click on this particular filter and you go to. You click on show results. Okay. So let's see. There's something. Let's remove one of the. We'd have to remove this right now. Okay. I'm just using this as an example right now. Yeah. Yeah. So let's say this is the GD got it. You'll be of course shortlisting your companies and everything. You can go to the career portal of a particular site and you can copy the GD. But this is something that I'm just using as an example right now. So I will be just copying this. Right. So I've just copied this and I'll be inserting it over now. Where it says insert GD guys, you have to just copy the entire GD and you have to post it. And simply what you need to do is just enter. Okay. Now based on the inputs that you given, we're going to get like an output. Okay. Now this is a summary which was given right now. If I want to make certain changes to it right maybe I want to change certain keywords. I don't want so many keywords. So I can anyways remove it from the prompt as well. It's just there because of when you know it just makes your thing easy. Otherwise when you look at the JD you can add other keywords if you want or the choose the most relevant keywords from the JD. You can do that as well right. But for example if I want to shorten it so you can even give it instructions you know that keep it crisp. Let's say keep it crisp and make it more suitable and relevant for the JD. Let's say we are sharing that. So this is more like a JD aligned version right. So for example if you still don't want experience transformation leader you can you can say that you know add special keywords like because the list of keywords that have shared leadership keywords you can pick any from there also that I want to use let's say driven the word driven should be there or mentor should be there. Or you know you want to have something which is specifically related to somebody's specifically using the word change management they want to have that in the first sentence itself so they can use it right. So this is some this is just an example of what all you can do with these particular problems right. Pratik Shah I hope you've got the idea how you can work your way around it. Yes yes. Okay now similarly for others this is something like you know I chose the mid level category for her because she said she wanted to look for a mid managerial role. If you're already in a mid managerial role you're looking for a senior managerial role in your kind of transition and after every like you know like all these prompts are given you have an example that you can refer to. This is just created by you know just for your reference and how it gets created then you have for senior and leadership role so this is again like if you're looking for a senior or a leadership level digital transformation resume so you can give these problems these are different from the mid and entry level so these are very specific to the roles that you're targeted. Got it guys this is the basic that you can I mean this will be very useful right the same thing has been given for. Let me share the same thing for general management also. Okay so you have this word document if the size and being shared when I please share the general management word document also yes Jayanta what are what are you asking. You want to see something Jayanta hello yeah yeah Jayanta tell me. Are you ready to tell me. Your voice is not here. Yes tell me. Is it already well now it's audible tell me yeah. I want to know we have just I am basically from the mining industry we have 30 years experience and I just recently did that course here so I understand that which position will suit to me if I vote for the transitions but if I go for the transition in my existing career. I will sit for a senior for you since so how will you make a decision according to that have you got my point. No you're saying that if you move today so see there are few points. Of course I have a appears experience you do that qualification and I just I did that course. You did the general management program. So how can I and I did my question is did you do the general management program. No digital legacy business transformation got it got it. So I have a 30 years experience in my domain professional industries that if you this is an experience in my parts. So how will I identify if I want will it be appropriate to go for that this stage to for transition and if I go for the transition which role should I identify. This is something that you know I would suggest that what I would suggest is that for a question like this you know this is not really related to a resume or building question. What I would suggest is that you personally have you connected for a personal counseling session because we were. You will have to do before this you will have to at least come up with your basic. What analysis which is like you will have to firstly identify what your course trends are what your core weaknesses are what are the top three domains that you have worked in. Where all and how is digital transformation applicable and what initiatives have you taken that's the basic that you need to do once you're able to you know approach that based on that only because in one minute. I have without having a discussion you know deeply about your background what you have done the kind of experience that you've had the kind of profile building that you have done we cannot just answer this right away that you can target this industry or because we'll have to firstly understand what are your core strengths so that is why I'm saying that. A lot of you who may have connected with me personally have gone through that skill gap analysis for stage. I got done for a season said did the counseling yes. Have you completed that task no I'm not completed I'm not. Yes that is the point now I just wanted to say that in the present what a swing and resume will be just yes we have completed the course we have. So if I go for the transition yes so you would be looking for senior leadership role no you have to put in just the way you're transitioning you look out for firstly identify what your transferable skills are guys I hope everybody understands what your transferable skills are in the past 30 years or in the past 15 years as long as your experience has been you firstly identify those I've asked you to do that then based on that what industries you shot. List or the kind of companies that you want to work with see if you want to change your industry you're looking at a midsize company or you're looking at a startup or you're looking at let's say you want to work as a consultant even for that you have to personally build a project put for you like the kind of projects that you've done and accordingly in that case in that case it will be just a value addition to my career. Yes if I go if I go for the if I go for sticking a career in the senior level in my domain yes value addition if we seek for a transition so I cannot start with this at this age and at this with this experience I cannot go for a transition. You can do the transition but you will have to then maybe look for if not a bigger brand you can start with mid to let's say midsize to start up soon where you can you'll be starting with the leadership you got it you that is why saying that it is very important for us to analyze what your core strengths because based on your core strengths you will get a job and the main thing is that is that I don't have the experience and just completed the course in the middle. No no, I don't think course no experience. No, I can I can I apply for this senior positions that's you can you can you can apply but in the past 30 years I want you to firstly identify if see even now when you've done a course between the completing the courses one thing. How are you implementing that? What are the recent initiatives you've taken what are the recent projects that you have done? So that is something that you will have to showcase first. Isn't it? So you can take about, let's say, one or two months into it, you can focus on build on that particular profile plus then you can build your resume. But the first basic step needs to be done. So we cannot, guys, one thing you need to understand, we cannot jump right into the, because the first, like, even in the counseling and people correct, they want to just try to be builder resume. But firstly, come up with a plan. No, I want to know what are the kind of companies and tools. Somebody is from, let's say, HR background, somebody's from marketing, somebody's from health care, they want to get into a different company. But why you're getting into it only because of the course or you have a vision, you think that in the next two to three hours, you want to get into that particular role, because you want to utilize. You need to have that clarity in your mind first. So that is why I give you that task. So once you do that, based on that, the next step would be your LinkedIn profile building and then comes your resume part. So this particular coming back to this particular section over here. So you have, let's say, the same thing for general management also, you have the same prompts for junior general management role, then you have example given over here, then you have mid and senior. Just the way I showed it to, like, Apparatikshya, you can use this and you can definitely have, you can use it and you can specifically start working on the resume. What I want you to do right now is simply, okay, simply what we can do is, yes, we'll be brief, Manoj, no worries, but guys, if you have personal questions, I'll be sharing my invite also. Book this not, once you book this not, accept it from your calendar. Join the counseling, which is some of you have booked it and have not turned up for the counseling. I'll be honest, so do that. So that it's important, but over here, the main purpose is how you can use these particular prompts for your resume, right? So this is also shared, just the way I showed that example to Kratikshya, I want you to pick up any, like, you know, one of these like professional summary, core competencies and skills, so you can use that, start from here and I'll put you in different groups. I'll be dividing you in different groups. I want you to quickly just choose one of the, you know, mid managerial or senior managerial or full and start looking out and rebuild your summary. I want you to put in that, write out in, you know, you can get back. So I think 10 minutes should be good enough for that. Yes. Can we start with the activity? Yes or no? I hope you will be able to participate in that. Yes. Okay. Yes. Yes. Great. So 10 minutes is all that I'm giving. You can download the copies. It's all given over here. GMP and DT. Word document. When I please reshare it right away so that everybody has it. You can download the copy again. People are not able to participate. It's okay. You can still join. You know, you can in network. You can start interacting with the other person. You can find out whether they are in the mid managerial level. How are they going to use the prompts? You can have that discussion. So have that chat. Yes, Abhishek. You wanted to ask something. Yeah. Manjusha. So once we had done with that, GPD, we got that, we gave them the prompt and we got the summary or whatever. We are looking for that. After that, we need to hypnotize also that content. Or because ATS will not. I'll tell you what. See, I'll tell you. It is the ATS is also the word keyword. If you go through the all the prompts, you will have everything is mentioned over there. The only thing is you can reduce it because I was not happy with such a long paragraph. So you can see because what I'm trying to say, this is just a tool. You will have to tailor it. This is one of the random JDs that we picked. Every day you want to pick up something special. You will do it like you know, specifically relate to the role that you're targeting. It will be more specific to that. So every time you have to share a resume, you're not going to think every day you cannot come up with new statements. But the content or these particular prompts are giving you so that it is just making your, it's like not easy to get. Hurry, easy. Go get that information. And this is a very specific curated, these are granular like prompts useful for that. Yeah. My main intention was here to talk with this. Like we cannot copy this directly and paste it in our resume because we need to hypnotize it or we need to rephrase it. You can you you should you can ask for your need. You can see you get those but ask for more options. That's short and if you're not happy with the keywords or you're not happy with a certain word, you can always tailor it according to that. That is the whole point. Yeah. Okay. So. Great. Yes, Nakhul. I'll be sharing a counseling so it will be one on one counseling. It's not a group counseling. Okay. So let me just put you I hope you have the DT of. One also, right? What did you want me to talk about? I'm talking about the digital transformation. You have that just. See is that shared with you right now? Nothing has nothing been shared. No, no, no, in the or you can see in the chat window there is a copy. Yes, but I'm not sure. I need to know. No, no, are you able to download it? That's my question. Okay, let me just do one thing. Let me share this or this time. One. Are you able to download it guys? Are you referring to the word find? Yes, I'm talking about the word file which has the charge EPT prompts. Yeah, for me it is. I could download it, but I think you know there was some other files as well, which we are sharing. I joined it late and I'm telling from. No one is everything that you see over here. That will be uploaded. Even though resume samples and everything that was showing you. That will also be uploaded. So you don't have to worry. Yeah, we are able to download great great. When I have just resched the sheet with you right now for BT also you can please share it over here for downloading. So that people can start downloading that as well. But in the meanwhile I'll be putting in the group so that at least you can start doing that. Okay, so I'm just putting you in five breakout rooms. You should you can start joining that. Yes, you can start joining that yes, DTS shared again. You You You You You You You You You You You You can also join in the rooms at least you can listen to the conversation and you can be a part of it. You You You You You You You You You Hello, yeah, Vinay, have you created the zip folder for both DDB and GNB for resumes and all? Yes, the one that downloaded was already in the zip format. Okay, so you have not shared that right now, right? No, no. No, so you'll be, yeah, that is what I wanted to just check with you. Yeah. Okay. Hi, Vinay, I just wanted to understand. What is the, your hand, sorry. I didn't get the activity because, and none of us in our room has understood what we exactly have to do if you could just repeat it. That is the same thing. You just have to use the prompt, right? For a teacher, you have to take a look at that door. Use one of the prompts and create one of the statements like the overview or the statement for the resume. So that is what I wanted you to have a look with the prompts. That is why that sheet was shared. Yes. Okay, okay. I could download the prompts. Yes. So you have to discuss, you have to discuss it with the team members and one of the prompts can be used just for practice. You know how to use it. Just look where I used it over here for her. Yes. Okay, so sorry if I can just, so basically prompts as in the resume header, professional summary. Yes, yes, professional summary header. I mean, you don't really need any prompt, but yes, summary or the other prompts, the entire resume prompts are given. So you can use one of these. Okay. Okay. So sorry if I can discuss it directly with you, you are itself is that? No, no, no, no, that's not my activity. You have to do it with the others. Okay. No, no, this was for my personal that will be done separately. No, you are this is not like this is a group. So you have to interact with the other's words. You understood the activity, you know, sister. I am the student. Yes. I mean, this is something which I, I mean besides everything which you have shared. Thank you so much earlier. This is something which I actually had to ask you, but good that it's come up. I'll first, if you can put me back to room three, I'll be more than I'll just, I'll just do that one second. I'll put you in room three. Okay, I'll have to put you back in another room now. That's fine. That's fine. Someone is asking for help and room three. One second. I'm just, I'll just join room three. Okay. Thank you so much. Yes, please. Hello. How are you? Hello. This is Adrian. Hello. Hello. Hello. Yes. Manjushas and the other rooms right now. She will be right back. Okay. So, I mean, who I am talking to? I am actually the TA for today from a gradient. Okay. So, I mean, it's okay. It's fine. Not a problem. All I just wanted to say is that, I mean, we have our room divided. I just have to come back to tell you that, I mean, we are not sure in the group like what is supposed to be done. Right. Nobody has like any clue what to do next with that. I mean, the doctor might have been here. So, there was a couple of questions to ask. So, I mean, this image of the right. She appeared on the dots for you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There is a picture. Till there. Anybody from the group? Okay. Okay. Sir, second sir. Yes, sir. Are you talking? I am just in the breakout room. Okay. If you wish to join back, this is probir. If you wish to join back to the breakout room, there is a link below. Join breakout room. You can click on that. You can join back. No, we are not. Sorry, sir. Yes, have you guys found in the chat? There is this link given. The word file. Yes. Yeah, the word file. This is the yes, for digital transformation. Yes, you can download that. Okay. And is there a Excel file as well for that for DT or that file? Yes, that is the sheet that will also be shared. That is separate. That is the keywords in the action words and for self-assessment. Like you have so on for the G. Correct, correct, correct. For G and same as for DT. But this is for building your resume. Yes. Okay. So, that will be shared. Yes, shared it yet. Okay. That was also shared. That was also shared over here. But anyways, it will be shared again. And this will be uploaded also with the session. Yeah. Okay. That's great. Okay. I think it's almost nine. Let me just call them back. I think we'll have to one second. Okay. But the overall patches whenever you're targeting like any role okay or any company that you want to switch to firstly identify what is the core requirement identified through the keywords. You have a list of keywords. Take a look at that. Then try to tailor your resume using the word document with the Charging beauty points. Right. And you can further tailor it as for your environment. So that's the whole idea. Yes, Rama. What do you want to be shared the same Charging beauty word doc? First of all, guys, were you able to interact? See in an interaction like this, what I would expect everybody to do is at least exchange. Maybe your LinkedIn profiles with each other. Build a network. You're from different industry. This is a good networking activity over here. Like, you know, some of your working, you're getting back from work. You don't want to be like learning a lot. You want to be more of like, you know, looking at it in terms of how you can engage better with your cohort members or with people who are from different groups. Right. So what I would recommend is whenever you get an opportunity like this instead of like given introduction, find out above the other person where that particular person is working, what his or her job aspiration is, then of course this was to do with, you know, how you can use the Charging beauty like from. So this is something that I've already shown you. This is very easy. I'm sure all of you are familiar with AI. It wouldn't be a difficulty at all. If you still feel stuck, you have, you know, issues or you're already not able to do it, you will anyways be connecting with me. But when you connect with me for a counseling, first thing that I'm going to share is. Okay, I've shared one link with you that shows like the slots available. You can book this lot. But when you book a slot with me, firstly, I want you to have an idea in terms of where you currently are. What is your vision based on that? Only I'll be able to help you with your LinkedIn profile and help you with your resume. Now, the resources that we are sharing today, it has both the sheets. So one by one, when I speak, yes. And you said just one question I just want to ask like. Yes, after this, after this whole conversation, like the link will not be there, right? Which link? The link you just like for the counseling link you said here. It will be not. So you can, you can actually copy it. I've just shared it in the chat right now. You can copy it and it is there on your dashboard. Okay, okay, then we can do it in the dashboard, right? You can do it in the dashboard, but if you want to open it and keep it open and you want to like, you know, just when the meeting finishes, you want to book a slot, you can do that. It's totally up to you. Okay, but it was previously it was showing like it's not working. I tried a couple of times, but it was not working. I've just shared the link with you. And you can book this lot and once you book this lot, you can accept it from your calendar. Now, three things I'm sharing with you. One is the chat GPT doc, which will help you to tailor your resume, right? Second thing is the sheet which has the keywords in the professional keywords that I was showing you in the beginning, which also has the assessment you did that in the beginning just to understand that. I would expect you to go back and have a look at it and do it. And then when you connect with me in the counseling, you will be able to do it. Right? Because seeing a group, we cannot look at everybody's personal resume and everything. It's not possible, but you can connect with me. That's why I'm giving you that time. Third thing that is going to be shared is the zip folder. When I please share the zip folder with them, which has the resume sample and the handbooks that I was showing you, right? So that is also divided into mid entry and senior leadership roles. So both the zip holders are there. That will also be shared in case somebody misses it. So I'm not going to be able to download it or anything. Doesn't matter. Guys, it will be uploaded. Post the session also. Plus I will just tell you about my email ID. My email ID is manjasha. Add the rate accredion.com. You can easily drop in email and you can connect with. Sorry, my spelling was strong. Sorry manjasha at the rate accredion. You can easily drop an email to me and you can reach out to me. So that in that case also you won't have any problem. Right? He has shared the zip folder. You can all download that as well. Right? I hope you're able to download it guys. Click on that. And whenever you get an opportunity to interact to meet a different person who may or may not be from your cohort doesn't matter. It's always good to build a network on my LinkedIn. I I'm connected with people who may not be from the same industry that I am in. But some somebody could be from healthcare. Somebody could be from Parma. I think but I make it a point to connect because you don't know when an opportunity comes your way. You have to build that network. So you cannot be only limited to that. I will only stick to this particular field or this particular industry. You can keep yourself open with the changing AI with the changing tools and how the digital platforms are taking you know how you're all online visible. So you have to keep in touch with what's the latest that is happening. So building a resume is a very small thing. Let me tell you most important thing is having the clarity, the vision in terms of what is the role that you're targeting what kind of companies you're targeting. So I'm just going to use why connecting in personal counseling session where I give you specific tasks to do that give you time to do that. And I connect and you get to connect with me multiple times. But if you don't complete the task and get back and saying that you know I'm not done it. But why have you not done that's the question. I'm giving you a simple thing to do. I just want you to identify and tell me what your strengths are just want you to know structure. I'm giving you the format. I just want you to take out your time and do that. Identify few profiles or link them very basic things I'm asking you to do right. Okay, so I hope this is clear all the documents if still there is a problem what I'll do is tomorrow over the email all the documents will be email to you also. Okay, I hope that wouldn't be a problem. Just for easy just to if there is any confusion or anything. Yes or no guys every time that would help that would be good. Yes, so I think so what I'll do is we will get it uploaded but I understand so what I'll do is I'll ask the academic team to drop you an email with all the resources with all the sheets and put both. So that anybody even if you're in general management you want to access something from digital transfer you just want to have a look it's okay. So that is why I kept it open so that I don't want it to be like you know you're only limiting yourself to this. Have a look at it have a fresh mine and look at it what are people what are the keywords used over there. What if you get into a role where both are relevant because there are folks coming from a different background and space and they need that. So I'll do that right now when I quickly share the feedback from and mention because we have curated few sessions like every Thursday in the next. 4 to 5 weeks the schedule is already shared with you you just have to have a look at that and you know you can see what all coming up sessions we have of course we have something to do with lignin I'll be making you do one like you know there will be an assessment related to that I'll surely you can even curate your lignin using the charge GPT problems but more than that I want you to firstly identify you know the kind of profile building that you have to do if you want to get into consult. Then look at people who are already into consulting like somebody like with each of mentioned learning so for her that keyword is very important learning right so she would be looking at those profiles which are relevant to that somebody who's from mining would be looking at their somebody who spend about 35 to 40 years into mining and maybe is working as a consultant in a different space. So first of all identify those core strengths and I would also recommend connect with me so that personally when you connect you can have a better clarity I can tell you directly what I expect and what you need to do so that we can bridge this gap faster right and all the details and all the resources will be shared separately over email so you don't have to worry about it tomorrow you'll get that email and share my email ideas where guys start filling up the. So let me know once you're done so that we can end the call and we'll be connecting next Thursday is going to be the next session you can connect with me in the middle you can definitely book this lot you can reach out to me some of you are connected I've not turned up for the next session maybe because you didn't complete the task or it was something or the other was lacking so ensure you do that and you reach out to me please. Yeah, okay once you're done you can keep mentioning done done and you can drop off a meal will be sent to you so you don't have to worry tomorrow during the day time meal will be scheduled for us yeah. Manjisha one more question for example if if I want to connect with you for a personal session so it's by way. Sorry you can see if you even if you're done with the program you can connect with me because I really want to connect with the program is over. Yes right so you can connect with me three to four times is something that anyways you will be connecting because I'll give you different you know if the task is I'll give you like the first if you're done with the first task I'll ask you to rework or give you task specifically related to your link then then based on that the companies that you've shortlisted I'll be asking you to tailor your resume I'll probably ask you to look at these charge you to promise rework on create three different sample resume come back then based on that whatever interview also you can connect with me. That's not a mission got it got it then first we need to just get the job yes yes yes absolutely absolutely whatever task so it will be fruitful during the discussion. Yes Jayanta you want to see something yes Jay want to ask one of one of those kids yes so when you were asking for downloading the profile from the link in the suppose some certain skills which are missing so we have to develop that skill. See that is why first of all when you're looking at the skill which is mentioned on the key words you're taking a note of it right you have an idea if I want to target for example in Google I want to work as a let's say digital transformation consultant and I want to get into or I want to be the head of operations in this particular team or division so you know that these are the specific skills in terms of the tools or the you know the relevant leadership skills that they require I'll have to tailor my profile according to that if you want to get into the project if I don't know that and that's a mandatory skill then that is that falls into my gap got it when we speak about the skill gap analysis there is a column that I give you right gap so that is your gap that means you need to work on that gap you need to create an action plan if power be I is something that I must know to get into that role and I'm just thinking what no I don't know I cannot that means you need to start working on it so either you start watching and working on it doesn't mean you have to be perfect. This is a misconception be all thing that we have to be perfect into something you don't have to be perfect but you cannot be when you're sitting for an interview if a question comes up you cannot come across as somebody who doesn't know about it so there is time for preparation that is why I'm asking you to identify the more gaps that you have you'll have that awareness okay this is something that I need to work on right so this is how you make that progress yeah so guys we'll be ending the call here and we will be sharing this in the email and you can then in the email I will also ask the team to share my calendar you can book this lot then right right we'll just take Arun's question and we'll be ending the session over here yes Arun yes I'm sure so I think I kind of missed for some reason I didn't get the trigger for the email for the session I just wanted to get a quick sense of what with this session is all about I have set up a one on session I think on the other you can get the email invite for the session yeah you are from the GMP batch or the digital yes GMP batch right but it's a GMPS so okay just one thing when I please take down his email ID so that you can check with the team that why was the mail why didn't he please check your spam folder also if it was sent or you've just missed it or so I would do that but I just wanted to understand what is this like an overview session to start with because I have set up a session with you day after no no that is the personal counseling that is like specific this is this was to do with resume building wherein I shared a couple of you know resources related to charge GPT forms and everything so it was related to resume building basically see this was not a basic session I would not call it basic because I was not saying this is how I was just talking everybody was over here is pretty much in mid to senior manager profile right so how do you tailor it further the session is more from that perspective so all the resources that I like that was shown with you will be emailed to you tomorrow and Arun I would just say that yes you can just share your email ID in the chat because the team will just check on this if the mail was not sent so that there's no confusion plus if you have booked a slot with me then you will be anyways connecting with you for a personal counseling yeah sure sounds good I think I business done in later no worries no worries no worries okay so guys we'll be ending the call here and thank you so much for connecting thank you so much and